You have the entire desmocranium, which is neurocranium, but it's membranous neurocranium,
if you will.
It's a metabolic field of distraction.
Here you have the entire viscerocranium, which will be there.
And inside, it's also pure neurocranium.
These are embryological derivatives, if you will.
Look, what's interesting is to see this kind of three-dimensional
three-dimensional form.
dimensional of the zygoma.
It enters like this,
with small facets,
small grooves that will run,
with the large groove here above.
This large groove, the sphenoidal
sphenoidal fissure
where you will have the oculomotor nerve,
the 3rd, passing through.
You also have the trigeminal branches
passing there.
And there, you have the optic canal
which is very important, which is here,
which will give
the nose.
optic and the artery, and then there's still a small interesting process, even
if it's
a very small one, it's the palatine, and remember that the palatine is
an equilibrium in relation to
this flexion movement of the embryo, you know, with the formation of the ascending palate
and descending, and the
palatine, which is inclined, is still on the zygomatic,
it's
on the maxilla as well, a bone, you see, which is also in three-dimensionality, it's on the
lacrimal
fossa here with the lacrimal bone which has a small fissure, you have the whole process,
there's the ethmoid, the nasal bone, somewhere the frontal,
and the sphenoid, but it's still
a large concentration of bony information in anatomy, we describe it as a
pyramid.
You see, have fun observing
the shape and orientation of these sutures.
This one is very interesting when you take a zygoma.
Take a look.
Here is the maxilla as well.
The others are a little different.
We essentially have three large tunics at the beginning.
We have what is called the sclera on the outside.
In front, the sclera will...
continue with what is called the cornea.
The cornea,
is transparent sclera.
While the white of the eye,
pure, you see,
that will be, in fact,
non-transparent sclera.
Second layer, it's the uvea.
The uvea,
which is made of different
parts that we will see, then there is the retina.
Do you know what this is? It's Cloquet's canal
or the canal
Do you see that? It's called the ora serrata.
The pars plana and the ora serrata.
It's like an umbrella, but it continues.
It's really the continuity of the sclera.
It is not vascularized, however, it is richly innervated.
In detail, we see that there is a part called the corneal epithelium.
Then you have a membrane, here, called Bowman's membrane.
the stroma
and then you have another membrane at the end
called Descemet's membrane
and then the endothelium underneath
you see all these small layers
that we can go into detail here
that it's simply this thin corneal layer
already
the information, because these are each time
different frequencies as well
it's already an intelligence
you know what the limbus is
in the eye, it's the junction
it's the limbus
The cornea and the sclera.
It's called the corneoscleral limbus.
Look here, it's called Schlemm's canal.
It's a place of resorption of the fluid from the anterior chamber,
here.
It's a canal that must resorb the fluid.
It's therefore in the sclera, but the posterior part, but at the
junction.
the limbus, this is the cornea
this is the sclera
these two things when they touch it's called the limbus
and behind here
I have Schlemm's canal which is part of this same stroma
which can also be involved in glaucoma
but glaucoma is also the posterior chamber
and the uvea is made of three layers
it's made of the choroid
it, however, richly
in front
It's made of the iris and between the two, you have the ciliary body which
will give ligaments and muscles that we call
the suspensory ligaments that suspend
the lens and hold it in its space.
It's all around, actually.
But on the other hand, with a lateral muscular concentration.
And don't forget that.
That's it, it's all around, it's this ora serrata too.
We can clearly see the choroid.
It's really richly vascularized.
Pure mesoderm.
It's really a tissue that is also in continuity, ultimately,
with the entire vascular network.
This is called the endothelium.
Fourth ventricle, the ventricles, you see.
Continuity with the Circle of Willis, it's the whole story to form all that.
So there's a flow, at some point.
From the choroid, what we call the different information
of eye integration.
There is really this mesenchymal flow.
It's a connective tissue, many fibroblasts, many macrophages, cleaners.
Very few capillary vessels for retinal nutrition, very many vessels for
nutrition.
And then we see here that...
And in addition, what we call the ciliary body and the ciliary
processes, suspensory ligaments.
And it is these ciliary processes that contain small muscles that will work on the
eye system.
So that's where we're going to have this relationship.
We have the cornea, the iris, the ciliary bodies, the
pars plana and the ora serrata.
We see the part here, you see, these filaments,
which are from what we call the zonule cellularis, here.
And we see the iris here.
It's a continuity of the vascular plane, with different qualities.
And then there will be muscles here, which we will see later.
Schlemm's canal, which will be located here.
ciliary muscle, its ciliary processes
and the pars plana here behind.
in fact, it's just an orifice,
between the iris
which has micro-contractions.
We will see in detail that the iris can contract
as well. The pupil,
it's just a hole, it's nothing,
in fact. It's just a space
given by the iris
which will increase
for light or close for light.
The pupil is a representation of a void.
The iris is the colored area, which is pierced in the center,
with small circular fibers, which are the sphincters,
and spread fibers for dilation.
The sclera, choroid.
And here, I have a layer of cells,
which is not really retina yet,
but it's still very important for the retina.
This is called the pigmented epithelium.
contains photosensitive pigments.
There are different layers. There are the
photoreceptors, which are
two in number, cones and rods.
We will study that. Then you have
bipolar neurons.
And then ganglion cells.
And we don't see it yet here,
but you also have amacrine cells,
which are horizontal cells,
which will be there, which will
allow rebalancing.
But we will see this physiology tomorrow.
You have these bipolar neurons with cells...
here, horizontal.
So that there is no loss of information,
when the light comes, it will
redistribute the mess.
Cones and rods,
we will mainly see. Cones,
essentially responsible for day
vision. Rods,
essentially responsible for night
vision. We see that the light incidence
arrives from here. And in fact,
the light incidence,
it crosses all these layers.
Touk!
then it gives the descending information towards the
axon.
Photons pass through everything, and it does that again.
It would almost be the opposite, but it's because we need this pigmented
epithelium.
There, you also have Muller cells, amacrine cells,
pericytes, to capture nutritive information.
There, it's really a concentration, if you will.
At the level of the fovea and the macula, you see, at the level of the receptors.
So there, it's for very precise visions.
And at the level of the papilla here, this is what is called the blind spot.
That's where Cloquet's canal still comes.
It's the empty point.
Macula and blind spot, papilla, optic disc.
We will divide the eye into two large parts.
The posterior part of the eye, here.
and the anterior part of the eye.
In the anterior part of the eye,
we further subdivide it into anterior chambers
and posterior chambers.
That means we see here,
in the anterior part,
we see the lens,
you see,
and there's fluid here,
circulating,
a fluid we call the posterior chamber here.
And then you have another separation here, at the level of the pupil,
the iris, which will give the anterior chamber.
And there, you have here a small sinus, the scleral sinus, which is also called, which is in the
corneal system, sclero-corneal at the limbus,
which is called the canal, Schlemm's canal, or the scleral sinus,
it's called.
And so there is an important circulation here.
In this chamber,
There is an aqueous humor that nourishes, in fact.
It's a nutritive fluid.
The vitreous body is really a gelatinous mass that protects.
This aqueous humor is colorless, secreted by the ciliary processes,
ciliary,
filtered by the trabeculum and reabsorbed by the venous sinus of the sclera
and Schlemm's canal,
or the scleral canal.
The aqueous humor fills both chambers, anterior chamber, posterior chamber,
and it communicates through the pupil.
It maintains an equilibrium and it nourishes, in fact, the space of the cornea
and the iris.
It's a nutritive level.
Posterior segment, we have the sclera, the choroid, the retina and the vitreous body.
Anterior segment, the cornea, the iris, the pupil, the aqueous humor, the lens, the ciliary body.
Here, we have the eyelid with the cutaneous surface.
But we see here, in fact, a mucous surface.
This is interesting because it's the conjunctiva
with a free edge here,
the cutaneous surface,
here,
the cutaneous surface which is here,
the free edge,
small glands that are important for secretion.
And we also have the tarsus.
It contains a liquid that will produce tears.
The tarsus continues with Muller's muscle, which is the elevator.
There's the tarsus, and we see Muller's muscle here,
which continues with the branch and the levator muscle, which is done here.
With the anterior layers here, which are there,
and with this small canal, this tarsal plane that is there.
There, we will see...
which has different depths
with this tarsus here
which is a first axis around
and then around we have the different layers
then we have another important gland
it's the lacrimal gland
with the lacrimal gland
and the flow that will occur through the tarsus
you see here
and the inferior lacrimal punctum
superior which are resorption points
and look how
we can clearly see the bone here
with this whole canal
and the meatus
nasal where it flows back into the nose.
If you've had a major shock accident and you taste
the tear and it's sweet, it means it's
a shock where you have CSF
there. Look, there might be a serious
trauma. Here, we can still see it clearly with the
conjunctiva, you see, with this palpebral fissure
here, you see.
There, the bulbar conjunctiva
The fornix, what space between the two?
We can clearly see how this conjunctiva connects
all that.
And that's where we can have conjunctivitis.
To differentiate, it will be uveitis.
In certain diseases, for example in arthritic diseases,
we can find uveitis.
It's the second layer that is affected, meaning the choroid.
Then we have the famous walls.
which insert on the sclera, above,
the third layer, the last one,
with muscles called the superior rectus, inferior rectus, etc.
Sometimes, the eye is in protrusion or intrusion.
All oblique tension will cause protrusion.
All intrusion will be the rectus muscles.
So we can clearly see that with all these eye movements.
And in fact, which are...
also related to the neck
muscles. The scalene muscles,
the sternocleidomastoid muscles, well, you see, all these
neck rotator muscles.
We say we have 7 muscles in fact
and the 7th one is there, it's the eyelid
levator muscle.
Which is not directly
at the level of the eye, but it's the eyelid
levator muscle. And sometimes
you can have significant
eyelid ptosis.
This can be a sign of polycystic disease.
As Viola Freeman said, all the muscles are inserted,
gripped, attached at the back.
You see, Zinn's tendon.
To insert on the ethmoid part and on, later, below the
sphenoid.
To attach well to this deep perimeter.
You have the oculomotor muscles, etc.
Don't forget that there is already a relationship with the cephalogyre.
Then we will integrate that with, later, in the spirals at the temporal level.
These will be the axes we will see.
This is Zinn's tendon.
We have the optic nerve here at 12 passing through.
The entire eyeball, etc.
To review with the superior rectus, inferior, lateral, left,
lateral, right.
And the elevator muscles of the eyelid.
This is yet another vision.
We can clearly see.
You see the oblique muscles that are here.
Another vision where we can clearly see that it will continue in a certain way, Zinn's
tendon,
with finally the optic nerve, you see, with
the optic chiasm, you see,
which is just in front of the pituitary gland.
And there we can clearly see the attachments, this time, that we will have, you see.
That's where the operations are, what's it called?
You know what it is, it's not a reference, it will be the limbus.
You see?
With the attachment, for example, of the muscle to the malar bone, you see,
of the ligamentous wings of the lateral rectus.
We can clearly see how it inserts there.
The sphenoidal fissure, with the ophthalmic vein,
the external oculomotor nerve also passing through, the 3rd.
the nasal nerve,
well all this...
Whereas there, we will have the artery
and the optic nerve.
At the level of these...
You see, of this palpebral elevator
here, the superior rectus,
we have
a whole...
of trabeculations
like that which are there,
like a thin layer.
And that, look how it will insert
up high, like that, quite far.
How it comes here too, there, really?
And that, that's the whole Tenon's capsule, it's a fascia.
It's the fascia of the eye,
which is in continuity with the entire fascial system of the body.
Tenon's capsule.
Not only is it muscular, but it's also fascial.
And that's the link with the whole body.
In terms of vascularization, it comes from the carotid.
So aorta, carotid, internal carotid, basilar
and ophthalmic artery.
And then the different arteries that will form, including a lateral branch here for
the lacrimal artery.
At the level of these arteries and in all these processes here at the level of the retina,
there is still an important process.
You have what are called pericytes or Rouget cells.
You have a membrane here.
basal, you see, and you have these small pericytes here which in fact
have a role in modulating
information, they can increase or decrease flows, they are almost small intelligent cells,
they are especially frequent at the level of capillaries and
especially at the
retinal level, I think we find them in the brain, the pericytes that we find around the
vessels come from the same family.
glial cells.
All ophthalmic veins
come to drain into the cavernous
sinus, left
and right.
Importance, finally,
Sutherland's fulcrum, which must be
released with
the inion, which is a super
important crossroads for
drainage, ultimately, towards what?
Which will flow back here, you see?
There, towards the jugular
vein system.
also important passage with the carotid
and
the optic nerve, which in fact
there is a pulsation
on the optic nerve
there is a trophic information
quite important, pulsatile
on the ocular information
we can feel our heart in our eyes
I feel beats
in fact
it's information where there's an imbalance
of pressure at the cardiac level
where I can
feel my heart in my belly, I can feel my heart in my throat, or I can even feel
my heart
beating in my eyes, and it's all related to what we also call ophthalmic migraines.
Three main types of innervation: 1. You have everything that is sensory, optic nerve, which
captures the information.
Everything that is motor, there are three, three, four, six.
Everything that is
sensory, that's the ophthalmic nerves.
And then, you have the vegetative center at the level of the ophthalmic ganglion.
So, four major levels of information.
The meeting of all this system, of all these bundles at the level of the retina,
will form what is called the optic nerve.
So, it's the union of all these neurons which, after having processed the information
here, will come together to give the sensory information.
With...
The continuity here, which is called Cloquet's canal.
Then again the lens.
With a muscular body, you see, an anterior pole, posterior pole, the
equator, the iris that lies on it here, like that, you see,
which is a continuity of the choroid with the body and then the annular
fibers that maintain, which are in fact what we call the ligaments.
There's a whole...
A geometric structure, quite specific, organized by embryology.
Depending on the muscles, it can stretch
or change the position of this lens.
And so, make it flatter or more convex,
well, you see, thicker or more stretched,
which means that the light will always be reflected as best as possible.
That's where we'll see.
a little bit that there are these different things that we call myopia, astigmatism,
etc.
And we'll see how the reflection, where it happens in the eye, you see.
But that was a major center of accommodation.
And with age, we will gradually damage it and we call that cataracts.
This lens, you see, with all the ciliary processes,
which will completely, constantly, work, rebalance itself in relation to that.